# Generalized Neural Operators
## Abstract
Welcome! In this repo, I play around with Neural Operators in attempt to make them better at learning PDE solution maps. 

During my PhD, I often used orthogonal series expansions. 
I worked with wavelets---same idea as Fourier modes, but the amplitudes of the wavelets are not constant over their domain, so they can capture localized information. 
I also worked with resolvent modes---special modes extracted from linearized partial differential equations that represent the most energetically amplified structures in the linearized system due to the effect of perturbations.

Resolvent modes are interesting because they encode physical conservation laws (conservation of mass, momentum).
Fourier Neural Operators interpolate input data smoothly using Fourier modes, but I argue that other functions could be better at representing the data, either by capturing localized phenomena more efficiently (wavelets) or representing structures that are preferentially selected by the natural dynamics of the system (resolvent modes). The hope is that using these functions to transform the input data would help with the generalizability of the neural operator.

I haven't yet implemented Neural Operators for eigenmodes or resolvent modes, but you can find naive implementations of Neural Operators which conserve mass in a brute force way (```conserveMass``` layer after the nonlinear activation layers), and a naive implementation of a wavelet-based Neural Operator. I use "naive" to indicate that the implementation developed by Caltech researchers is more sophisticated and supports mixed-resolution inputs and parallelization; I implemented everything from scratch as an exercise.

---
## Index
A guide to the different files contained here:
### SCRIPTS
- ```NO.py```: general script that combines different types of neural operators

- ```xFNO.py```: Fourier Neural Operator (FNO) and Physical Fourier Neural Operator (PFNO). The latter imposes conservation laws

- ```xWNO.py```: same as above but using SWT instead of FFT

- ```layers.py```: contains layers used to build the neural networks (fourier, wavelet, activation, mass conservations)

- ```special_loss_functions.py```: contains some custom loss functions better suited for learning PDEs

### DIRECTORIES
- solver/: PDE solvers
- data/: timeseries generated using solvers
- plots/: some gifs generated by the jupyter notebooks
---
